# The role of age and infection ascertainment in the COVID-19 epidemic in British Columbia

This repository will accompany the analysis undertaken in Harvir S. Bhattal's CAPS 449 Thesis (found [here](https://github.com/hbhattal/covid-19-model/blob/main/CAPS%20449%20Thesis%20-%20Harvir%20S.%20Bhattal.pdf)), submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Honours Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences at the University of British Columbia (Vancouver).

## Abstract
The COVID-19 pandemic has presented a global health crisis of unprecedented scale – with a grave cost of life, and substantial social and economic ramifications. Mathematical models of COVID-19 have been indispensable in informing policy to minimize this cost. In order to explore the role of age and the suspected underreporting of infections in B.C.’s epidemic, we constructed an age-stratified model of COVID-19 that incorporates infection ascertainment. We found that fitting this model to reported case data, without additional constraint, is insufficient to precisely identify age group-specific infection dynamics and the extent of infection ascertainment. Therefore, we constrained the transmission parameters with external contact data – after which our model was able to simulate the observed epidemic with a high degree of accuracy. Furthermore, the current report developed a novel method to estimate infection ascertainment using only case and hospitalization data (along with a single time-point of seroprevalence). This method was used to back-calculate the true epidemic in B.C. from its outset to date. We confirm suspicions of significant underreporting of infections as the epidemic in March 2020 is estimated to be 14.4 (95% CI, 9.6-17.1) times larger than reported. Finally, we utilized our model to evaluate the effectiveness of different vaccination strategies in preventing hospitalization events. Based on the utility in blocking chains of transmission, the present report recommends vaccinating high-contact essential workers earlier than currently scheduled in B.C.
